1. How many states could has a process in Linux?
Running or Runnable (R)
Uninterruptible Sleep (D)
Interruptable Sleep (S)
Stopped (T)
Zombie (Z)

2. Examine the pstree command. Make output (highlight) the chain (ancestors) of the current
process.
Скрін


3. What is a proc file system?
Proc fs is virtual file system, that presents information about processes and other system information 

4. Print information about the processor (its type, supported technologies, etc.).
скрін

5. Use the ps command to get information about the process. The information should be as
follows: the owner of the process, the arguments with which the process was launched for
execution, the group owner of this process, etc.
скриншот

6. How to define kernel processes and user processes?
By prices id more then 1000

7. Print the list of processes to the terminal. Briefly describe the statuses of the processes.
What condition are they in, or can they be arriving in?
SS Interruptible sleep (waiting for an event to complete) + is a session leader
S Interruptible sleep (waiting for an event to complete)
I Idle kernel thread
R running 
R+ running +  is in the foreground process group

8. Display only the processes of a specific user
скриншот

9. What utilities can be used to analyze existing running tasks (by analyzing the help for the ps
command)?
top


10. What information does top command display?
pid,user,prioritu NICEcommand, Virt=allvirtuall memory of proces,res,SHR,S,CPU%,MEM%,TIME,COMMAND

VIRT — полный объем виртуальной памяти, которую занимает процесс
RES — текущее использование оперативной памяти
SHR  --  Shared Mem size
S -state of process
TIME — время использования процессора в секундах
COMMAND — команда, запустившая процесс.

12. Display the processes of the specific user using the top command.
top -U u2

12. What interactive commands can be used to control the top command? Give a couple of
examples.
shift + n sort by pid
shift + p sort by cpu
shift + m sort by memory usage
shift + t sort by time usage
shift + z change clors
c 

13. Sort the contents of the processes window using various parameters (for example, the
amount of processor time taken up, etc.)
скріни


14. Concept of priority, what commands are used to set priority?
nice

15. Can I change the priority of a process using the top command? If so, how?
tap r after type process Which you want to change prioryet and type NI NICE

16. Examine the kill command. 
How to send with the kill command: 
kill pid
process control signal?
ctrl + c,  
Give an example of commonly used signals:
Hangup (often used before logging out)
Interrupt (same as pressing Control+C in a terminal session)
Kill (terminates without cleanup) 
Term Kill (terminates gracefully after cleanup) 

17. Commands jobs, fg, bg, nohup. What are they for? Use the sleep, yes command to
demonstrate the process control mechanism with fg, bg.

bg - put suspended process into background
fg - bring process into foreground
jobs - list processes
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

PART 2 
Part2
1. Check the implementability of the most frequently used OPENSSH commands in the MS
Windows operating system. (Description of the expected result of the commands +
screenshots: command – result should be presented)
2. Implement basic SSH settings to increase the security of the client-server connection (at least
3. List the options for choosing keys for encryption in SSH. Implement 3 of them.
rsa 
dsa 
ecdsa 

4. Implement port forwarding for the SSH client from the host machine to the guest Linux
virtual machine behind NAT.
5*. Intercept (capture) traffic (tcpdump, wireshark) while authorizing the remote client on the
server using ssh, telnet, rlogin. Analyze the result.



